
NAME
stripe - converts a .obj file to a .objf file.
(converts a polygonal model to triangle strips)

SYNOPSIS
stripe [options] [file.obj]

DESCRIPTION

The purpose of stripe is to speed up rendering time by converting a
polygonal model to triangle strips. This manual describes the implementation
of stripe, which was written by Francine Evans under the guidance of Steven
Skiena and Amitabh Varshney, SUNY at Stony Brook.

Stripe's input is a .obj file in binary or ascii (default) and its output is
a objf file in ascii, which contains the model represented by triangle
strips. You can then use the objf file to render the model. We provide a
viewer called viewobjf which uses opengl to render the model.

There are two phases to stripe: a global and local phase. In the first
phase, the global phase, stripe finds patches of quadrilaterals and converts
them to triangle strips, while also trying to extend off of the ends of the
patches. stripe works especially well with models with quadrilaterals, since
there will be many patches, and the patches form good sequential triangle
strips. However, stripe does not only work with models containing
quadrilaterals. It works on any model consisting of polygons.

The second phase, the local phase, uses a local algorithm to determine
strips on the polygons that are left after the global phase cannot find any
more suitable patches. This local algorithm uses adjacency information to
determine which polygon to use next in a strip, and also triangulates the
polygons on the fly to produce better strips.

The default options are the options that we observed to work the best. You
can specify different options other than the ones that are set as the
default, or simply leave off any options to use the ones that we found to be
the best.

OPTIONS
-a  In case there is a tie as to choosing the next polygon in a strip
    during the local phase, this option will alternate left-right direction
    in choosing the next polygon in a strip during successive tie-breaks.
-b  This specifies that the input file is in binary.
-f  In case there is a tie as to choosing the next polygin in a strip
    during the local phase, this option will simply choose the first
    polygon that it found.
-g  This option specifies to find triangle strips only within the groups
    that are specified in the data file.
-l  In case there is a tie as to choosing the next polygon in a strip
    during the local phase, this option will look ahead to the next level:
    it will examine the neighbors of each of the polygon's that tied and
    choose the next polygon in the strip based on which one has the best
    neighbor to put in the strip at the next evel.
-o  This option allows you to turn off Stripes orientation 
    checking algorithm.
-p  This option specifies that during the local phase we will be partially
    triangulating faces when we use them in a strip, saving the rest of the
    face for later and only using what we need for the current strip. This
    is the default option, if no triangulation option is specified.
-q  In case there is a tie as to choosing the next polygon in a strip
    during the local phase, this option will choose the next face that does
    not produce a swap (degenerate triangle). If this is not
    possible, then the lookahead method is used (option -l). This is the
    default option for tie breaking, if no tie breaking option is
    specified.
-r  In case there is a tie as to choosing the next polygon in a strip
    during the local phase, this option will randomly choose the next face
    from the list of tied faces.
-w  This option specifies that during the local phase we will be fully
    triangulating a face as we come to it in a strip, without saving any of
    it for another strip.

SEE ALSO
viewobjf(1)

BUGS
Stripe assumes models consisting of convex polygons.
Stripe assumes no more than 254 characters on a line.
Stripe assumes polygons of 3 sides or greater.
Stripe assumes that your file system supports extensions greater than 3.
Please report any bugs to stripe@cs.sunysb.edu

AUTHOR
This manual page contributed by Francine Evans of Stony Brook University. It
has been reviewed by Steven Skiena and Amitabh Varshney of Stony Brook
University.
